# Dual CDC Device Example \(device\_dual\_cdc\)

This application demonstrates the ability of the MPLAB Harmony USB Stack to support multiple<br /> USB Device operation on a PIC32 microcontroller with two USB Controllers.

## **Description**

This application demonstrates Multiple USB Device operation on a PIC32 microcontroller with<br /> two USB Controllers. Both the USB peripherals operate in USB CDC Device mode. This<br /> demonstrates capability of Harmony USB stack to work with multiple USB controllers.

## **Downloading and building the application**

To clone or download this application from Github, go to the [main page of this repository](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/usb_apps_multi_controller) and then click **Clone** button to<br /> clone this repository or download as zip file. This content can also be downloaded using<br /> content manager by following these [instructions](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/contentmanager/wiki).

Path of the application within the repository is [usb\_apps\_multi\_controller/apps/device\_dual\_cdc](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/usb_apps_multi_controller/tree/master/apps/device_dual_cdc).

Following table gives the details of project configurations, target device used,<br /> hardware and its IDE. Open the project using the respective IDE and build it.

|Project Name|IDE|Target Device|Hardware / Configuration|
|------------|---|-------------|------------------------|
|pic32mk\_gp\_db.X|MPLABX|PIC32MK1024GPE100|PIC32MK General Purpose \(GP\) Development Board|
|pic32mk\_mcm\_curiosity\_pro.X|MPLABX|PIC32MK1024MCM100|PIC32MK MCM Curiosity Pro Development Board|
|pic32cz\_ca80\_curiosity\_ultra.X|MPLABX|PIC32CZ8110CA80208|PIC32CZ Curiosity Development Board|

## **Configuring the Hardware**

**[PIC32MK General Purpose \(GP\) Development Board](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/dm320106)**

-   Switch S4 should be set to the Device position.
-   Jumper J28 must be removed.
-   USB Micro B Connector J12 must be connected to a USB Host for powering the board.
-   Use the USB connectors on the board to connect the USB Device to the USB Host PC.
    -   J13 - USB Peripheral 1 \(USB Micro B connector located on the bottom side of the board\)
    -   J15 - USB Peripheral 2 \(USB Type C connector\)
-   Following LEDs indicates USB Device Configuration Set Complete event \(the USB device functionality has been activated by the USB Host\).
    -   LED1 - USB Peripheral 1 \(USB Micro B connector - J13\)
    -   LED2 - USB Peripheral 2 \(USB Type C connector - J15\)
-   Press switch to trigger communication from the USB Device to the USB Host.
    -   S1 - USB Peripheral 1 \(USB Micro B connector - J13\)
    -   S2 - USB Peripheral 2 \(USB Type C connector - J15\)

**[PIC32MK MCM Curiosity Pro Development Board](https://www.microchip.com/Developmenttools/ProductDetails/EV31E34A)**

-   Switch S200 should be set to the Device position.
-   Jumper J204 must be removed.
-   USB Micro B Connector J203 must be connected to a USB Host for powering the board.
-   Use the USB connectors on the board to connect the USB Device to the USB Host PC.
    -   J200 - USB Peripheral 1 \(USB Micro B connector located on the bottom side of the board\)
    -   J202 - USB Peripheral 2 \(USB Type C connector\)
-   Following LEDs indicates USB Device Configuration Set Complete event \(the USB device functionality has been activated by the USB Host\).
    -   LED1 - USB Peripheral 1 \(USB Micro B connector - J200\)
    -   LED2 - USB Peripheral 2 \(USB Type C connector - J202\)
-   Press switch to trigger communication from the USB Device to the USB Host.
    -   SW1 - USB Peripheral 1 \(USB Micro B connector - J200\)
    -   SW2 - USB Peripheral 2 \(USB Type C connector - J202\)

**[PIC32CZ CA80 Curiosity Ultra development board](https://www.microchip.com/en-us/development-tool/ea61x20a)**

-   Connect the following USB connectors on the board to the USB Host PC:
    -   J102 - USBHS0 \(USB Micro-B connector\)
    -   J103 - USBHS1 \(USB Type-C connector\)
-   The following LEDs indicates USB Device Configuration Set Complete event \(the USB device functionality has been activated by the USB Host\):
    -   LED0 - USBHS0 \(USB Micro-B connector - J102\)
    -   LED1 - USBHS1 \(USB Type-C connector - J103\)
-   Press the following switches to trigger communication from the USB Device to the USB Host:
    -   SW0 - USBHS0 \(USB Micro-B connector - J102\)
    -   SW1 - USBHS1 \(USB Type-C connector - J103\)

## **Running the Application**

This application demonstrates dual USB Device operation on a PIC32<br /> microcontroller with two USB Controllers. The MPLAB Harmony USB Stack is capable of handling<br /> multiple USB controllers. In this demonstration, both of the USB controllers act as CDC<br /> devices.

This demonstration allows the each controller on the PIC32 to appear like a<br /> serial \(COM\) port to the host. Do the following to run this demonstration:

1.  Open the project with appropriate IDE. Compile the project and program the target device.
2.  Attach both USB connectors J15 and J13 to a USB Host. Refer to [Configuring the Hardware](#GUID-E35D6C0A-0684-45F5-AD6A-D7B0F267439B) for details.
3.  The CDC Device application is same as *cdc\_com\_port\_single* demo. Refer to local documentation from [usb\_apps\_device/apps/cdc\_com\_port\_single.](GUID-DB15E610-4438-4D75-A60F-9BC2079E65EC.md) The documentation is also available in the github path [usb\_apps\_device/apps/cdc\_com\_port\_single](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/usb_apps_device/apps/cdc_com_port_single).

**Parent topic:**[Harmony 3 USB Multi-Controller application examples](GUID-76832A45-8D59-4921-A368-9304B22965EF.md)

