# CDC Device and MSD Host Example \(device\_cdc\_host\_msd\)

This application demonstrates the ability of the MPLAB Harmony USB Stack to support USB<br /> Device and Host operation on a PIC32 microcontroller with two USB Controllers.

## **Description**

This application demonstrates USB Device and Host operation on a PIC32 microcontroller with<br /> two USB Controllers. One USB peripheral operates in USB Device mode and other peripheral<br /> operates in USB Host mode. This demonstrates capability of Harmony USB stack to work with<br /> multiple USB controllers.

## **Downloading and building the application**

To clone or download this application from Github, go to the [main page of this repository](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/usb_apps_multi_controller) and then click **Clone** button to<br /> clone this repository or download as zip file. This content can also be downloaded using<br /> content manager by following these [instructions](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/contentmanager/wiki).

Path of the application within the repository is [usb\_apps\_multi\_controller/apps/device\_cdc\_host\_msd](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/usb_apps_multi_controller/tree/master/apps/device_cdc_host_msd).

Following table gives the details of project configurations, target device used,<br /> hardware and its IDE. Open the project using the respective IDE and build it.

|Project Name|IDE|Target Device|Hardware / Configuration|
|------------|---|-------------|------------------------|
|pic32mk\_gp\_db.X|MPLABX|PIC32MK1024GPE100|PIC32MK General Purpose \(GP\) Development Board|
|pic32mk\_mcm\_curiosity\_pro.X|MPLABX|PIC32MK1024MCM100|PIC32MK MCM Curiosity Pro Development Board|
|pic32cz\_ca80\_curiosity\_ultra.X|MPLABX|PIC32CZ8110CA80208|PIC32CZ Curiosity Development Board|
|pic32ck\_gc01\_curiosity\_ultra.X|MPLABX|PIC32CK2051GC01144|PIC32CK GC Curiosity Ultra Development Board|

## **Configuring the Hardware**

**[PIC32CZ CA80 Curiosity Ultra development board](https://www.microchip.com/en-us/development-tool/ea61x20a)**

-   Board must be powered by J100.
-   USBHS0 Peripheral \(Micro-AB connector - J102\) operates in USB Host mode.
    -   USB Flash drives should be attached to J102 using a USB Type-A Female to micro-B male cable \(This cable is not included in the kit\).
    -   LED1 on the demonstration board will illuminate to indicate completion of the file transfer.
-   USBHS1 Peripheral operates \(Type C connector - J103\) operates in USB Device mode
    -   Connect J103 to a Host PC.
    -   LED0 indicates USB Device Configuration Set Complete event \(the USB device functionality has been activated by the USB Host\).
    -   Press switch SW1 to trigger communication from the USB Device to the USB Host.

**[PIC32MK General Purpose \(GP\) Development Board](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/dm320106)**

-   Switch S4 should be set to the Device position.
-   Jumper J28 must be removed.
-   USB Micro B Connector J12 must be connected to a USB Host for powering the board.
-   USB1 Peripheral \(Type A connector - J14\) operates in USB Host mode.
    -   USB Flash drives should be attached to J14 \(Type A connector\)
    -   LED 2 on the demonstration board will illuminate to indicate completion of the file transfer.
-   USB2 Peripheral operates \(Type C connector - J15\) operates in USB Device mode
    -   Connect J15 to a Host PC.
    -   LED1 indicates USB Device Configuration Set Complete event \(the USB device functionality has been activated by the USB Host\).
    -   Press S1 to trigger communication from the USB Device to the USB Host.

**[PIC32MK MCM Curiosity Pro Development Board](https://www.microchip.com/Developmenttools/ProductDetails/EV31E34A)**

-   Switch S200 should be set to the Device position.
-   Jumper J204 must be removed.
-   USB Micro B Connector J203 must be connected to a USB Host for powering the board.
-   USB1 Peripheral \(Type A connector - J201\) operates in USB Host mode.
    -   USB Flash drives should be attached to J201 \(Type A connector\)
    -   LED 2 on the demonstration board will illuminate to indicate completion of the file transfer.
-   USB2 Peripheral operates \(Type C connector - J202\) operates in USB Device mode
    -   Connect J202 to a Host PC.
    -   LED1 indicates USB Device Configuration Set Complete event \(the USB device functionality has been activated by the USB Host\).
    -   Press SW1 to trigger communication from the USB Device to the USB Host.

**[PIC32CK GC Curiosity Ultra Development Board](https://www.microchip.com/en-us/development-tool/ea23j82a)**

-   Use the Barrel jack connector\(J200\) to connect an external power supply to the board.
-   The USBHS Peripheral named as USB0 \(USB Type-C connector - J202\) operates in USB Host mode.
    -   Attach a USB Flash drive to J202.
    -   LED0 on the demonstration board will illuminate to indicate completion of the file transfer.
-   USB Full Speed Peripheral named as USB1 \(USB Micro A/B Connector - J203\) operates in USB Device mode
    -   Connect J203 to a Host PC.
    -   LED1 indicates USB Device Configuration Set Complete event \(the USB device functionality has been activated by the USB Host\).
    -   Press the switch SW1 to trigger communication from the USB Device to the USB Host.

## **Running the Application**

This application demonstrates the capability of a PIC32 microcontroller and the<br /> MPLAB Harmony USB Host stack to work with two USB Controllers in an application. This<br /> application operates USB1 controller on the PIC32MK in USB Host mode and USB2 Controller in<br /> USB Device mode.

USB1 controller on the PIC32 to operate as USB Host MSD and USB2 peripheral to<br /> appear like a serial \(COM\) port to the host. Do the following to run this demonstration:

-   Open the project with appropriate IDE. Compile the project and program the target device.
-   Attach a USB Flash drive to the Host connector and Connect USB Device connector to a USB Host. Refer to [Configuring the Hardware](#GUID-AC9A21EC-95B9-4167-B928-61CD5CBB6781) for details.
-   The CDC Device application is same as *cdc\_com\_port\_single* demo. Refer to local documentation from[usb\_apps\_device/apps/cdc\_com\_port\_single.](GUID-DB15E610-4438-4D75-A60F-9BC2079E65EC.md) The documentation is also available in the github path [usb\_apps\_device/apps/cdc\_com\_port\_single](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/usb_apps_device/apps/cdc_com_port_single).
-   The MSD Host application is same as *msd\_basic* host demo. Refer to local documentation from [usb\_apps\_host/apps/msd\_basic](GUID-F9D5AB11-B9C2-4E37-A971-FC12A540E307.md). The documentation is also available in the github path [usb\_apps\_host/apps/msd\_basic](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/usb_apps_host/apps/msd_basic).

**Parent topic:**[Harmony 3 USB Multi-Controller application examples](GUID-76832A45-8D59-4921-A368-9304B22965EF.md)

